EZEE-2676: Beginner EE tutorial step: Forms (#696)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/tutorials/enterprise_beginner/5_create_newsletter_form.md

# Step 5 — Create a newsletter form

!!! tip
    You can find all filed used and modified in this step on [GitHub.](ADD)

The final step of this tutorial assists you in adding to the home page a Form block for signing up to a newsletter.

### Add a Form block

Start with creating a Form Content item.

> In the **Forms Panel**, click **Create** and select **Form**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the **Forms** panel, click **Create** and select **Form**.
```

Enter the title, eg. "Sign up for Newsletter" and click **Create a form**.

In the Form Builder, add and configure (using the **Basic** and **Validation** tabs) the following form fields:

|Form field|Name|Required|Additional properties|
|-----|----|--------|---------------------|
|Single line input|Name|yes|Minimum length = 3|
|Single line input|Surname|no|Minimum length = 3|
|Dropdown|Select topic|yes|Options:</br>- News</br>- Tips </br> - Articles|
|Email|Email address|yes|—|
|Captcha|CAPTCHA|yes|—|
|Button|Sign up!|—|Action: Show a message</br>Message to display: Thank you!|

The configuration should look like this:

![Adding Fields to Newsletter Form](img/enterprise_tut_form_creation.png "Adding Fields to Newsletter Form")

After adding all fields, go to the previous menu and click **Publish**.

> Now you can edit the Page and add a Form block below the Random block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you can edit the Front Page and add a Form block below the Random block.
```

Edit the block and select the form you created. Click **Submit**.

The Page should refresh with the Form block.

![Newsletter Form Block](img/enterprise_tut_first_form.png "Newsletter Form Block")

> It clearly differs from the page design, so let's proceed with customizing the block's layout.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It clearly differs from the page design, so you also need to customize the block's layout.
```

The remaining step in configuring the block is adding the CSS styling.
Add the following code to `web/assets/css/style.css`:

``` css
/* Newsletter Form block */
.block-form {
    border: 2px solid #8b7f7b;
    border-radius: 5px;
    padding: 0 25px 25px 25px;
    margin-top: 15px;
}

.block-form .ezstring-field {
    display: inline-block;
    font-variant: small-caps;
    font-size: 1.2em;
    width: 100%;
    text-align: right;
    padding-top: 20px;
}

.block-form .col-form-label {
    display: none;
}

.block-form .form-group {
    font-variant: small-caps;
    font-size: 1em;
    margin-top: 12px;
}

.captcha_image {
    padding-left: 10px;
    padding-bottom: 10px;
}

.captcha_reload {
    font-variant: all-small-caps;
    padding-left: 5px;
}

.btn-primary {
    background-color: rgb(103,85,80);
    border-color: rgb(103,85,80);
    margin-top: 15px;
    margin-bottom: -20px;
}

.block-form h3 {
    font-variant: all-small-caps;
    text-align: center;
}
```

Your newsletter form block is ready.

![Newsletter Form Block](img/enterprise_tut_final_form.png "Newsletter Form Block")

### Manage the submissions

You can view all submissions in the Back Office.

> Go to **Forms Panel**. From the Content Tree, select the Form and view the **Submissions** tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go to **Forms** panel. From the Content Tree, select the Form and view the **Submissions** tab.
```
